.TH TERMCHAT 1 "2026" "termchat" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
termchat \- minimal anonymous terminal chatrooms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B termchat
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fIROOM\fR]
.br
.B termchat host
[\fIROOM\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B termchat discover
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B termchat
is a lightweight terminal\-native chat client.
Open a terminal, run one command, and instantly join or create an anonymous chatroom.
.PP
Built for quick collaboration, debugging sessions, pair programming,
temporary communities, and internet\-native realtime chat.
.PP
If no \fIROOM\fR code is given, a new room is created automatically.
.PP
LAN host mode starts a local WebSocket server in the same process and opens
the normal terminal UI. Other users join directly by IP address. A UDP
multicast beacon is broadcast every second, enabling LAN room discovery via
\fBtermchat discover \-\-local\fR.
.PP
The first user to join a room becomes the host. The host is shown with a
\fB[host]\fR tag in the user list sidebar. When the host disconnects, the
next oldest user by join time becomes the new host.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-room " " \fICODE\fR
Join an existing room by its code.
.TP
.BR \-\-host " " \fIADDRESS\fR
Connect to a LAN host by IP address or hostname. The WebSocket URL is built as
\fBws://ADDRESS:PORT/ws\fR unless \fB\-\-server\fR is provided.
.TP
.BR \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
LAN WebSocket port for hosting or joining (default: 8080).
.TP
.BR \-\-server " " \fIURL\fR
WebSocket server URL (default: wss://termchat.sacred99.online/ws).
This option takes priority over \fB\-\-host\fR and \fB\-\-port\fR.
.TP
.BR \-\-api " " \fIURL\fR
API server URL (default: https://termchat.sacred99.online).
.TP
.BR \-\-password " " \fIPASS\fR
Room password for hosting or joining. If joining a locked room without this
flag, the CLI prompts interactively.
.TP
.BR \-\-online
Discover filter: show online rooms only.
.TP
.BR \-\-local
Discover filter: show LAN rooms only.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Show command usage and exit.
.SH HOST MODE
.TP
.B termchat host
Generate a room code, start a local WebSocket server on port 8080, join the
room locally, and open the TUI.
.TP
.B termchat host \fIROOM\fR
Start a local WebSocket server, validate and join \fIROOM\fR, and open the TUI.
.TP
.B termchat host [\fIROOM\fR] \-\-port \fIPORT\fR
Host on a custom port.
.TP
.B termchat host [\fIROOM\fR] \-\-password \fIPASS\fR
Host a password\-protected (locked) room.
.SH COMMANDS
The following commands can be typed in the chat input:
.TP
.B /help
Show available commands.
.TP
.B /clear
Clear chat history.
.TP
.B /nick \fINAME\fR
Change your nickname.
.TP
.B /color \fI#RRGGBB\fR
Change your nickname color (hex format).
.TP
.B /password \fINEWPASS\fR
Set or change the room password (host only).
.TP
.B /password
Remove the room password and unlock the room (host only).
.TP
.B /quit
Exit the room.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.TP
.B Enter
Send message.
.TP
.B Alt+Enter
Insert newline.
.TP
.B Up/Down
Scroll through input history.
.TP
.B PgUp/PgDown
Scroll chat viewport.
.TP
.B Ctrl+C
Quit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.termchat/config.json
User configuration (nickname, color). Created automatically.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a new room:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat
.RE
.PP
Join an existing room:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat 7WHB
.RE
.PP
Join with \fB\-\-room\fR flag:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat \-\-room 7WHB
.RE
.PP
Use a custom server:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat \-\-server wss://my.server/ws \-\-api https://my.server
.RE
.PP
Host a LAN room with an auto\-generated room code:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat host
.RE
.PP
Host a specific LAN room:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat host FROG
.RE
.PP
Host on a custom LAN port:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat host FROG \-\-port 9000
.RE
.PP
Join a LAN room by IP address:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat FROG \-\-host 192.168.1.42
.RE
.PP
Join a LAN room on a custom port:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat FROG \-\-host 192.168.1.42 \-\-port 9000
.RE
.PP
Host a password\-protected room:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat host \-\-password secret
.RE
.PP
Join a room with a password:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat FROG \-\-password secret
.RE
.PP
Discover all rooms (online and LAN):
.PP
.RS
.B termchat discover
.RE
.PP
Discover online rooms only:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat discover \-\-online
.RE
.PP
Discover LAN rooms only:
.PP
.RS
.B termchat discover \-\-local
.RE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at \fIhttps://github.com/ishaan\-jindal/termchat/issues\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Ishaan Jindal
.SH LICENSE
MIT License. See \fI/usr/share/licenses/termchat/LICENSE\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project homepage: \fIhttps://github.com/ishaan\-jindal/termchat\fR
